# VehicleCollision-Edinburgh

This is one of my project during my 2 years program. This course is Interactive Visualization Design. We used Processing in this course.

The basic definition of data visualization is how we can present a complex dataset as a pictorial or graphical format. It could help particular users, usually decision makers, to analyse thousands of data so that they can communicate a data driven hypothesis or even predict a future. (http://www.sas.com/en_us/insights/big-data/data-visualization.html)	
In this assignment I tried to make something that not only visually attractive but also easy to understand. First, I did take a look into all of the datasets on edinburghopendata.info, and in my opinion, vehicle collisions dataset is the most interesting dataset, because it contains a lot of data fields that I could explore further to make data visualization. It align to the concept of data visualization which is transform a complex of dataset into an efficient visual presentation. Geolocation data is also another consideration why I chose this dataset, so I can use a map model visualization. 
Besides of those reasons, why I did choose this datasets is also because I think that if we could make a good visualization based on this dataset so people could easily understand, then we could provide useful information regarding to some factors that causes the collision (e.g. weather). We could also spot some area that collisions happen often, so council could think how to make the better solution in that particular area.
So, the first thing I did was I tried to understand the dataset. Then, I decided to use gelocation, month, severity, and weather fields as my main data. My initial plan was to show collisions represented by dots with 3 different colours determined by severity. I would also have slider to shows data based on the month collision happened. To show data based on different weather condition, I would provide 4 buttons (fine, rain, snow, fog).
The next step was I decided the map that I would use as a background, so I captured map from cartoDb.com with dark colour theme. Then I got the longitude and latitude data of that map from geojson.io. Having the size of the map, then I designed a sketch of my screen layout. So, here is the initial plan of my screen:
 
Having my layout screen details, then I started to draw on processing. I put the map background and try to load the data from file then visualize every single collision as a dot on the map. But, I realized later that dot is not the best option to represent single entity on my map because it was not visually engaging. I tried another option which I used an accident sign icon I got from internet to substitute the dot, and turned out it was much better than before. I used severity field to differentiate every single accident based on its impact (i.e. slight, serious, and fatal). I made a different colour and size of the icon for each category.
In order to make it more interactive, I put slider and button into my visualization. I used slide to change the month that accidents was happened. I used controlP5 (http://www.sojamo.de/libraries/controlP5/) library to make a slider. Every time we drag the slider, the map will shows different data for each month. I used button (https://processing.org/examples/button.html) to change weather category related to an accident. There are six weather category in the dataset, but I just use four of them, those are “fine”, “rain”, “snow”, and “fog”. While “others” and “unknown” category is not included on my visualization.
The last part in my visualization is a legend that show number of accidents based on month and weather category that user choose. It could make a user easy to compare accidents number for each month and also for different weather condition. I think it could be so useful to make a hypothesis related to some reasons of collision. When user want something more detail about an accident, he can point to one icon on the map to show the exact date and day of the accident.
 
I feel that my visualization is still far from perfect. I believe there is a possibility to provide something more informative as well as interesting at the same time. I need to combine this dataset with some other datasets like traffic condition, traffic light or footfall in order to provide more attractive visualization. In term of visual presentation, I think it will be so nice if I could provide zoom in and zoom put feature to see a single spot more detail. I also think that by using animation and sound when we point one accident on the map, could give another kind of experience for user.     


